Postdoctoral fellowship in text data analytics 

Posting Date:		Mar 5, 2018 (revised - higher salary and international applicants will be considered)
Job Title:		Post-Doctoral Fellow, School of Computing, Queen's University
Funded by: 		IBM and CIMVHR (Canadian Institute of Military and Veteran Health Research)
Department:		School of Computing, Queen's University
Collaborators: 		University of Manitoba, Western University
Project Title: 		Defining Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) in Primary Care Electronic 
			Medical Record (EMR) Data to Explore Prevalence, Patient Characteristics and 
			Primary Care Experiences of Veterans, Families of Military Service Members 
			and the General Population 
Research Areas:		Natural Language Processing (NLP), text mining, machine learning,
			knowledge representation and management, medical decision support system
Supervision:		Dr. Farhana Zulkernine and academic collaborators 
			(primarily Dr. Alexander Singer, University of Manitoba)
Remuneration:		$50,000 CDN per year (including all benefits)
Start Date:		May 1st, 2018 
Duration:		2 years
Application Deadline: 	Until hired 
Application Procedure:	Apply by email by sending the application package to 
			farhana@cs.queensu.ca.

Qualifications:	We seek a candidate with proven expertise in text data mining, natural language
processing (NLP), deep learning/machine learning, knowledge management using big data storage systems 
and knowledge sharing using cloud services. The work will focus on using NLP and text mining 
techniques to extract terms that are representative of PTSD diagnosis from doctors' chart notes 
stored in the EMR systems. The data must be anonymized and analyzed to extract indicators of 
possible development or progression towards developing PTSD and diagnosis of PTSD in different 
sectors such as veteran population, their families and general public to understand and evaluate 
quality of primary care for patients with PTSD. The extracted and analyzed data must be stored 
to enable knowledge translation and sharing with the research community. 
     A PhD in Computer Science or a comparable qualification is required. The successful candidate 
must have a good research record with publications in relevant international conferences and 
journals, text analytics, and machine learning. The candidate is expected to have an active role 
in various collaboration efforts with other universities and industry, both at the national and 
international level. Good communication and project management skills and willingness to work in 
a team are essential. Additional information about Dr. Zulkernine's research and the project can 
be found at http://cs.queensu.ca/~farhana/. 
    The position is for two years and is funded by IBM and CIMVHR (Canadian Institute for Military 
and Veteran Health Research). The candidate will be working in the Big Data Analytics and Management 
laboratory (BAM Lab) at the School of Computing, Queen's University but will be closely collaborating 
with Dr. Alex Singer at the University of Manitoba and other collaborators involved in this project.
Periodic reports must be presented about the status and progression of the work. The candidate will
also be expected to supervise other graduate and undergraduate students on relevant project and  
will have an opportunity to have joint publications and gather experiences in academic jobs.
    The School of Computing is one of the premier computing departments in Canada with about 30 
faculty members and close to 150 graduate students. Kingston is Canada's first capital and is centrally 
located between Toronto, Ottawa, and Montreal. The United Nations rates Canada as one of the best 
countries in the world to live. The project will provide a unique opportunity to the candidate to work 
with multiple experts on an interdisciplinary research which will contribute to Canada's health care 
system and allow exploration of cutting edge tools and techniques in text data analytics, knowledge 
management, and machine learning. 

Please send one application package (a zip file) to farhana@cs.queensu.ca containing:
1) A cover letter explaining experiences relevant to the project.   
2) A curriculum vitae with detailed information regarding your academic degree, 
research projects and publications. 
3) Names and email addresses of three referees. 
4) Sample publications (1-2 recent publications). 
***Canadian citizen/immigrant/permanent resident will be given priority.

EMPLOYMENT EQUITY: The University invites applications from all qualified candidates. Queen's is 
committed to employment equity and diversity in the workplace and welcomes applications from women, 
visible minorities, Aboriginal peoples, persons with disabilities, and persons of any sexual 
orientation or gender identity.
